# bmv
SIH Problem Statement:

Pandas Pre processing code for Early Prediction of Sepsis

Problem Description:

The goal of this Challenge is the early detection of sepsis using physiological data. For the purpose of the Challenge, defined sepsis according to the Sepsis-3 guidelines, i.e., a two-point change in the patient's Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score and clinical suspicion of infection (as defined by the ordering of blood cultures or IV antibiotics) (Singer et al., 2016). The early prediction of sepsis is potentially life-saving, and challenging participants to predict sepsis 6 hours before the clinical prediction of sepsis. Conversely, the late prediction of sepsis is potentially life-threatening, and predicting sepsis in non-sepsis patients (or predicting sepsis very early in sepsis patients) consumes limited hospital resources. Develop a digital solution that uses artificial intelligence to detect patient deterioration before it’s too late and trigger notifications to clinicians and care teams. Train healthcare providers and front-line staff to quickly recognize symptoms to identify sepsis and treat patients at the earliest. Also, educate preventing infections in health care settings and in the community so that infections that can lead to sepsis can be stopped before they happen. Provide guidelines to follow infection control requirements (e.g., Hand hygiene) and ensure one to receive recommended vaccines (e.g., Flu and pneumococcal, etc.). Abstract Sepsis is a life-threatening condition that occurs when the body's response to infection causes tissue damage, organ failure, or death (Singer et al., 2016). In the U.S., nearly 1.7 million people develop sepsis and 270,000 people die from sepsis each year; over one third of people who die in U.S. hospitals have sepsis (CDC). Internationally, an estimated 30 million people develop sepsis and 6 million people die from sepsis each year; an estimated 4.2 million newborns and children are affected (WHO). Sepsis costs U.S. hospitals more than any other health condition at $24 billion (13% of U.S. healthcare expenses) a year, and a majority of these costs are for sepsis patients that were not diagnosed at admission (Paoli et al., 2018). Sepsis costs are even greater globally with the developing world at most risk. Altogether, sepsis is a major public health issue responsible for significant morbidity, mortality, and healthcare expenses. Early detection and antibiotic treatment of sepsis are critical for improving sepsis outcomes, where each hour of delayed treatment has been associated with roughly an 4-8% increase in mortality (Kumar et al., 2006; Seymour et al., 2017). To help address this problem, clinicians have proposed new definitions for sepsis (Singer et al., 2016), but the fundamental need to detect and treat sepsis early still remains, and basic questions about the limits of early detection remain unanswered. data set https://physionet.org/content/challenge-2019/1.0.0/

Organization : GE Healthcare
Category : Software
Domain Bucket : Healthcare & Biomedical Devices

